HEC Product Capture manual fallback / polish — SOURCE only
2026-10-04 | Visible version 0.6.33

1. Verified starting state
Canonical Git root:
C:\Users\mlwes\OneDrive\Documents\HEC Development\Healthy_Eating_Companion_Founder_Trial_Alpha_0_6_32
The workspace's HEC Develpoment path resolves to that canonical Git root.
Branch: alpha-0.6.33
HEAD: a3dff29da32f27601f28385badb6c072a73963f1
Direct parent: 0b54a8d9d0b1d6d63f3654acb5decedb8ccd1a1e
Subject: Improve noisy iPhone panel metadata mapping
Tree: clean before editing. Version: 0.6.33.
SOURCE generation: 4ecbd4c95fcbe7e6f32e8162.
No starting-state mismatch was found.

2. Enter Panel Manually before repair
The control had an event listener and revealed the existing form. It always
focused Product Name. On a new draft, beginProductPanel also scheduled a
requestAnimationFrame that subsequently scrolled/focused Take Photo. The new
production browser test reproduced actual focus=take-scan-photo after manual
entry, explaining why the control could appear ineffective. This is evidence
about current SOURCE, not a reconstruction of the earlier physical build.

3. Files changed
alpha06.js — manual entry, focus, guidance, field markings, null-safe adapters.
capture-foundation.js — validation wording only; recognition code unchanged.
index.html — existing form copy, manual guidance, column controls placement,
optional-column label, mobile input modes, and generated release identity.
styles.css — Product Capture targets, required-field border and scroll margin.
release-manifest.json — deterministic generated output.
service-worker.js — deterministic generated release identity; template unchanged.
tests/manual-capture.test.js — 27 focused data and workflow tests.
tests/manual-capture-rendered.test.js — 4 production browser workflow tests.
tests/noisy-iphone-v56-rendered.test.js — open column details only when closed;
manual entry now opens them. Existing value and reachability assertions remain.
PRODUCT_CAPTURE_MANUAL_FALLBACK_REPORT.txt — this report.

4. Final manual-entry behaviour
Enter Panel Manually opens the existing editable form, shows packet-entry
guidance, opens Serving details and column controls, and scrolls/focuses an
unresolved required field. Name, column choice/unit, energy, incomplete serving
details, preparation or source choice take priority over optional nutrients.
If required fields are complete, it selects a blank nutrient in table order
(main nutrients before optional nutrients), or the package confirmation.
The deferred photo focus is ignored once manual entry is active, the draft has
changed, or navigation has suspended it. No new screen or modal was introduced.

5. Prefill preservation
Switching to manual entry does not parse, clear or replace the current form.
Product name, brand, barcode, serving, count, nutrition and preparation survive.
Identity already obtained from the front of a packet is retained during initial
panel setup. Trusted baseline cells retained after an unread OCR cell are no
longer marked as invalid just because that separate extraction was uncertain.

6. Manual-only workflow
The synthetic Example Crackers fixture entered all supplied values through
real form controls: 25 g, 8 servings/pack, 4 crackers/serve; per-serve energy
420 kJ / 100 Cal and per-100 energy 1680 kJ / 400 Cal, with all specified main
nutrients. Values and the serving relationship survive private save, Review
and Diary. Four crackers log 100 Cal and 120 mg sodium. No OCR or text-reparse
action is used. This fixture exists only in tests/disposable browser storage.

7. Partial OCR plus manual completion
Mocked OCR returns only 67 g / 2 slices. Both survive the manual handoff. The
user explicitly chooses the printed basis, then enters 10.5 servings/pack,
697 kJ / 166 Cal and 255 mg sodium per serve, and 1040 kJ / 243 Cal and
380 mg sodium per 100 g. Both printed columns survive save and reopening.
Other nutrients remain null. Extraction evidence still shows the original
missing energy. Partial nutrient completeness is retained. No product-specific
runtime logic was added.

8. Private/barcode baseline
A synthetic confirmed private sachet food and a mocked barcode lookup retain
12.5 g / 1 sachet, water-only preparation, 47 Cal and an explicit fat zero.
The controls remain editable. Missing protein, sodium and printed kJ start
blank. A manual sodium change is saved only by the explicit save action.
Prior private evidence, the catalogue baseline and the checked model remain
distinct. The observed barcode source object is unchanged by manual editing.

9. Unknown versus zero
The model/save layer already represented missing nutrients as null. The form
adapter and active barcode adapter could convert whitespace to zero. They now
use trimmed input / the existing finite-or-null helper. Non-numeric barcode
values also remain unknown. Surrounding whitespace preserves manual qualifiers.
For every non-energy nutrient, both bases are tested with undefined, null,
empty string, whitespace, numeric zero and string zero through JSON save,
Review reconstruction and Diary snapshots. Energy has separate blank/zero gate
tests. Rendered tests verify whitespace calcium/protein remains null and typed
iron/sodium/fat zero remains numeric zero. OCR sparse merge tests retain this
distinction. Blank printed energy cells remain null in nutritionBasis; the
existing explicit derivation of the other energy unit for Diary is preserved
and identified by energy provenance. No missing printed column is fabricated.

10. Energy validation
The existing sufficient-energy and package-confirmation gates remain enforced.
Whitespace energy cannot enable Save/Add. A genuine zero can. Guidance names
the selected basis and asks for kJ or Cal from the packet. With no chosen
basis, it first asks for Per Serve or Per 100 g / mL. Required fields use the
existing brown/orange treatment and link to the review message. A known item
count is not marked invalid when only its unit needs completion.

11. Per-serve / per-100 handling
The column controls sit before the nutrition table and remain open during
manual entry. Both columns stay independently editable and stored. A wholly
blank panel no longer defaults to an unsubstantiated per-100 selection. Existing
energy-bearing models retain their supported selection. Per-100 g and mL are
covered. Optional nutrients remain in their existing section.

12. Prepared references
Manual Per 100 mL As Prepared remains separate from the dry per-serving food.
The main and optional column headers and accessible input labels identify that
reference. The 47 Cal dry sachet / 32 Cal prepared reference test saves/reopens
both without treating the reference as dry-product energy or a water amount.
Selecting the prepared reference for dry-food energy remains blocked. Existing
unresolved prepared-reference evidence and no-decimal-guessing tests still run.

13. Serving details
Manual entry opens Serving details, with Items Per Serve and Item Unit visible.
The summary shows the current relationship, including crackers, slices and
sachets. Incomplete count/unit pairs retain clear validation guidance.

14. Recognised text
Show Recognised Text stays collapsible and closed after a photo read. Its
button now reads Retry Fill From Text (Optional), with text explaining it is
a reference/retry aid. Normal photo and manual workflows do not require it.
Successful or partial reads explain prefilled values and manual completion.
An empty read asks the user to enter packet values without an OCR lecture.

15. Cancel / Back
Existing Cancel and navigation semantics are retained. Cancel from saved-food
review returns to My Foods without changing the saved record. Back returns to
the preceding Library, leaves edits only in the in-memory draft, and offers
Resume/New when capture is reopened. Resume preserves unfinished input; Cancel
still discards it without writing the private food. No autosave was added.

16. My Foods
Manual-only, partial OCR and private-baseline scenarios save and reopen through
the production UI. Both printed bases, unknowns, zeroes and serving details
survive. Source catalogue records are not mutated.

17. Diary
The manual-only fixture reaches amount selection, final Review and stored
Diary with its natural cracker unit. Existing capture/qualifier regressions
cover natural-unit scaling, saved-food reopen, snapshot reconstruction, water
preparation and historical versus Today date provenance. Daily Progress and
Meal Planning aggregation were not redesigned.

18. Mobile and accessibility
Production SOURCE is rendered in isolated Edge at 390 x 844 and 320 x 568.
Tests cover manual action, stable focus, editable fields, serving details,
column selection, precise missing-energy guidance, optional nutrients and
Save/Add reachability. A 330-pixel viewport height simulates reduced keyboard
space for typing and action reachability. There is no material horizontal
overflow. Touched text inputs, selects, buttons and details summaries have
44-pixel minimum heights; checkbox labels retain their larger tap surfaces.
Fields retain visible or accessible labels. Screenshots are visually checked.
This is browser automation, not physical iPhone or native keyboard acceptance.
Final-generation screenshot directories:
C:\Users\mlwes\AppData\Local\Temp\hec-manual-390-Q72xEW
C:\Users\mlwes\AppData\Local\Temp\hec-manual-320-YE7FO8

19. Focused verification
343 / 343 non-rendered tests passed, zero failures/skips.
17 / 17 rendered tests passed, zero failures/skips.
Total: 360 unique focused tests passed (343 non-rendered + 17 rendered).
After the full campaign, one focus-order line was changed to follow the visual
table order before optional nutrients. The non-rendered campaign was rerun on
the final generation; the four manual rendered workflows were also rerun with
an added assertion that missing Protein receives focus before optional Calcium.
Focus-order follow-up result: 4 / 4 passed, zero failures/skips.
Includes the 27 new data tests and 4 new rendered workflow tests.
Non-rendered log:
C:\Users\mlwes\AppData\Local\Temp\hec-manual-fallback-focused-final.txt
Rendered log:
C:\Users\mlwes\AppData\Local\Temp\hec-manual-fallback-rendered-final.txt
Focus-order follow-up log:
C:\Users\mlwes\AppData\Local\Temp\hec-manual-fallback-focus-followup.txt
Campaigns cover capture/scan, barcode/private serving reuse, energy and basis
validation, qualifiers, date provenance, private save and Diary snapshots,
release/update lifecycle and installation isolation. SOURCE assets are served
by local interception; same-origin live fallthrough is asserted zero. External
requests are blocked or explicitly mocked. No live deployment is exercised.
node --check passes for changed runtime/test JavaScript and the generated
worker. git diff --check passes. The tests use synthetic profiles and food.

Non-rendered command:
node --test tests/manual-capture.test.js tests/noisy-iphone-v56.test.js tests/real-iphone-panel.test.js tests/physical-panel-repair.test.js tests/post-v52-capture.test.js tests/shared-product-capture.test.js tests/saved-nutrition-review.test.js tests/product-capture-pipeline.test.js tests/release-coherence.test.js tests/release-update-lifecycle.test.js tests/physical-iphone-follow-up.test.js tests/physical-iphone-search-serving-corrections.test.js tests/product-serving-semantics.test.js tests/barcode-confirmation.test.js tests/dual-install-isolation.test.js tests/stage8c-barcode-panel.test.js
Rendered command:
node --test --test-concurrency=1 tests/manual-capture-rendered.test.js tests/noisy-iphone-v56-rendered.test.js tests/real-iphone-panel-rendered.test.js tests/physical-panel-repair-rendered.test.js tests/post-v52-capture-rendered.test.js tests/shared-product-capture-rendered.test.js tests/nutrient-qualifier-review-rendered.test.js

20. Release generation
Normal deterministic command: node scripts/build_release.js
Before: 4ecbd4c95fcbe7e6f32e8162
After: ff6fa0c2de9cbfa6b09cace9
node scripts/build_release.js --check passes. Version remains 0.6.33.
No generation identifier was manually edited. No PWA protocol was changed.

21–24. Local SOURCE commit
Exactly one new local commit is authorised after all focused gates pass.
Direct parent: a3dff29da32f27601f28385badb6c072a73963f1
Subject: Improve Product Capture manual fallback
The final chat report records its SHA and the post-commit git status; a commit
cannot include its own SHA. No amend, push, deployment or subsequent work.

25. Remaining limitations
Physical iPhone camera, Safari/Home Screen and native keyboard acceptance remain
unverified. Recognition accuracy is unchanged; the packet is authoritative.
Photo retention/reference remains as previously implemented. No image-retention
system, catalogue expansion, aggregate nutrition redesign or unrelated UX fix
was added. Pre-existing explicit Try Again clears the extraction attempt;
Enter Panel Manually preserves it.

26. Scope and protected state
No OCR refinement work was started. No OCR engine, fuzzy rule, image processing
or product-specific parser was changed. Nothing pushed or deployed.
TEST remains untouched at the supplied v57 state:
a7240c15cd10216839a6202d93b8b38985231c42.
My Data remains protected and untouched at the supplied state:
120714d2d31bdc610039dbe70ce0fb6d3c9df6e0.
Those deployment SHAs were supplied in the brief, not independently queried.
No personal data or backups were accessed. Only SOURCE and disposable synthetic
test artefacts were used. Work stops after the one local commit and report.
